# Glossary

Note: This glossary includes some detail intended mainly for MLJ developers.

## Basics

### hyper-parameters

Parameters on which some learning algorithm depends, specified before
the algorithm is applied, and where learning is interpreted in the
broadest sense. For example, PCA feature reduction is a
"preprocessing" transformation "learning" a projection from training
data, governed by a dimension hyperparameter. Hyper-Parameters in our
sense may specify configuration (eg, number of parallel processes)
even when this does not effect the end-product of learning. (But we
exclude verbosity level.)

### model (object of abstract type `Model`)

Object collecting together hyperameters of a single algorithm.  Models
are classified either as *supervised* or *unsupervised* models (eg,
"transformers"), with corresponding subtypes `Supervised <: Model` and
`Unsupervised <: Model`.


### fit-result (type generally defined outside of MLJ)

Also known as "learned" or "fitted" parameters, these are "weights",
"coefficients", or similar paramaters learned by an algorithm, after
adopting the prescribed hyper-parameters. For example, decision trees
of a random forest, the coefficients and intercept of a linear model,
or the rotation and projection matrices of PCA reduction scheme.


### operation

Data-manipulating operations (methods) parameterized by some
fit-result. For supervised learners, the `predict`, `predict_mean`,
`predict_median`, or `predict_mode` methods; for transformers, the
`transform` or `inverse_transform` method. An operation may also
refer to an ordinary data-manipulating method that does *not* depend
on a fit-result (e.g., a broadcasted logarithm) which is then called
*static* operation for clarity. An operation that is not static is
*dynamic*.

### machine (object of type `Machine`)

An object consisting of:

(1) A model

(2) A fit-result (undefined until training)

(3) *Training arguments* (one for each data argument of the model's
associated `fit` method). A training argument is data used for
training (subsampled by specifying `rows=...` in `fit!`) but also in
evaluation (subsampled by specifying `rows=...` in `predict`,
`predict_mean`, etc). Generally, there are two training arguments for
supervised models, and just one for unsuperivsed models. Each argument
is either a `Source` node, wrapping concrete data supplied to the
`machine` constructor, or a `Node`, in the case of a learning network
(see below). Both kinds of nodes can be *called* with an optional
`rows=...` keyword argument to (lazily) return concrete data.

In addition, machines store "report" metadata, for recording
algorithm-specific statistics of training (eg, internal estimate of
generalization error, feature importances); and they cache information
allowing the fit-result to be updated without repeating unnecessary
information.

Machines are trained by calls to a `fit!` method which may be
passed an optional argument specifying the rows of data to be used in
training.

For more, see the [Machines](@ref) section.


## Learning Networks and Composite Models

*Note:* Multiple machines in a learning network may share the same
model, and multiple learning nodes may share the same machine.

### source node (object of type `Source`)

A container for training data and point of entry for new data in a
learning network (see below).


###  node (object of type `Node`)

Essentially a machine (whose arguments are possibly other nodes)
wrapped in an associated operation (e.g., `predict` or
`inverse_transform`). It consists primarily of:

1. An operation, static or dynamic.
1. A machine, or `nothing` if the operation is static.
1. Upstream connections to other nodes, specified by a list of
   *arguments* (one for each argument of the operation). These are the
   arguments on which the operation "acts" when the node `N` is
   called, as in `N()`.



### learning network

An acyclic directed graph implicit in the connections of a collection
of source(s) and nodes. 


### wrapper

Any model with one or more other models as hyper-parameters.


### composite model

Any wrapper, or any learning network, "exported" as a model (see
[Composing Models](composing_models.md)).
